This is year number five for
Scripting for System Administrators.
And I must admit, I said last year we're
running out of ideas.
It was hard, but we have some very,
very good stuff.
I beat an engineer into submission
until he learned Ruby in seven days.
Let that be a lesson to anyone
wanting to do this next year.
But Andy did a great job,
so we have him coming up here.
Chris comes up second,
talks about kicking the kicker.
And we have a little contest at the end.
We need a name for this script,
so he'll be talking
about that a little bit.
And then we follow up with Josh,
who wrote a little script
just to use the word injector.
So we have a home injector script that
you can use at login to do some stuff.
So hopefully, get you guys energized,
excited about scripting.
Show you some new stuff,
some of the cool stuff,
using Leopard and some of
the other technologies.
For the first time this year--and I'm
very excited about this because we've
been trying it for a while but never got
anything to stick--Chris will be talking
about some of the scripting bridges.
So how to go from your scripts to
actual Objective-C and things like that.
To add a little more power and to
kind of combine both of those worlds.
So, without further ado,
I'd like to introduce Andy Leeper.
He's going to come up here and
talk to you about some Ruby.
Hello, everybody.
I'm here to talk about Ruby.
And I'm actually going to do that by
giving you my story of how I did this.
So if you like a lot of caffeine,
this is great.
If you just so happen to be one of
those people that likes to learn
scripting languages in their free time,
this is a good way to go through and
kind of jump start that whole thing.
So let's go ahead and jump in.
On the first day,
what happened was Joel gave
me a buzz and he said,
"Hey, Andy, I'd really like you to come
speak at WWDC this year."
And I was thinking to myself,
"Oh, yes, you know, of course.
Like, why wouldn't I want to?
This is a great opportunity.
I get to get in front of all you
guys and talk to everybody and,
you know,
it would be awesome." And he said, "Well,
it would be in our scripting
for sysadmin session." And,
you know,
I had come for the past four years,
you said it was, five years, and,
you know,
I thought it was a really cool session.
I was--I felt honored.
So I jumped into it and I had just
the tool I wanted to show you.
And I had a tool that my coworker
wrote called Ghost Host which takes
information from Open Directory,
puts it into a MySQL database
and kind of uses some augmented
data to kind of bring all this
together into a nice user interface.
So I said, "Hey, you know,
he developed this thing
in three or four weeks.
I can come up and talk about that.
You know, it might be really interesting
to some folks." And,
you know, Joel liked it.
And I said, "Hey, you know,
Joel liked the idea." But he
came back to me and said,
"Hey, you know,
you wrote this all in PHP.
Can you do it in Ruby?"
And I was thinking to myself,
"Ugh."
I don't know.
One of my friends at work
is a big Ruby evangelist,
and he sits there and he talks about,
man, you can write everything
in two lines of code.
You don't have to do anything.
In fact,
I wrote this wonderful application
that does the same thing in
like seven lines of code.
So I was a little skeptical,
so I went and did my own research.
And you know, I went to Google.
I typed in Ruby.
And the first thing that
I got was this website,
which is the ruby-lang.org website.
So some of the things you'll see
over on the right-hand side is
the Try Ruby in your web browser.
That brings you to this page.
And this is a really useful tool for
just checking it out on your own time.
It kind of hand-holds you through it.
And it was a really
useful resource for me.
So I went through the first chapter.
And when I went through
the first chapter,
I realized that, you know,
this is how I do something in Perl.
This is how I do something in Ruby,
you know,
as far as declaring my variables.
Not all that different.
So I said, "Hey Joel, you know what,
I'd be honored to go ahead and do this.
I thought it would be a great
opportunity." So I jumped right in.
So the next day...
Yeah, I go to work.
I work hard like everybody else.
I put in my 10, 15 hours.
And when I get home from work,
I want to play games.
I don't really want to, like,
do more work, right?
Well, I realized, no,
I should probably be a good engineer.
I should spend some time and
get back onto the Ruby thing.
So I pulled open Safari.
I searched for Ruby again because
I forgot what website I went to.
And I wound up at the same website.
Fortunately, it's the first Google link,
so I didn't have to do much crawling.
And I went back to the tutorial.
And this time,
I went through chapters 1 through 5.
So chapters 1 through 5 kind of
uncovered a little bit more stuff.
It uncovered stuff like
control structures.
So in Perl, this is how you do a for each
loop to go through an array.
And in Ruby, it's not so similar.
You end up doing stuff
like things.each do thing.
And I wound up at the same website.
Fortunately, it's the first Google link,
so I didn't have to do much crawling.
And I went back to the tutorial.
And this time,
I went through chapters 1 through 5.
It looks nothing like Perl.
So I figured, well,
the concept's still the same.
I can still apply what I know about
scripting into learning this new thing.
So I decided, well, hey,
I'm just going to make a list.
So what are some things
that I typically use?
I typically use variables,
I typically use loops,
and I typically use functions
like everybody else.
And so I decided to map it out
between Perl and between Ruby.
So the next day.
I go into work, do my normal routine,
drink some coffee, type some email,
you know, do the normal thing there.
I got an email that said, "Hey,
your code is due in
five days for review."
I was a little bit panicked.
I was--no.
I don't really have much together.
I thought I was going to have a
couple weeks to present this thing.
I have five days to put
this thing together.
Oh, I probably shouldn't have played
World of Warcraft last night.
Not a good idea.
It's really intimidating to
learn a foreign language.
By the way, I threw this in here because
it's a little side joke
to those who do know Ruby.
The creator of Ruby is Japanese.
But it's really intimidating to
learn a new foreign language.
But I realized that, hey,
as long as I remain methodical
about it and I plan everything out,
it should still come out okay.
So I started off with the basics.
This is how you do Hello World in Ruby.
Not all that different from Perl.
You just use a different command.
Actually,
you can still use print if you wanted to.
This is how you do arrays.
Still really basic.
Actually,
to those of you who know Python,
it's pretty close to the Python syntax.
And I also found some other
stuff along the way such as,
hey, there are methods to call on
these things because everything
inside of Ruby is an object.
So you get some free stuff.
This is much easier than it is in Perl.
So, I got so fascinated with the stuff
that I was learning when I was
going through this that I stayed
up until like 3 in the morning
playing on it and it was just fun.
And I fell asleep on my keyboard.
It's not fun to wake up to beep
beep beep beep beep beep beep,
you know,
that's going on on your computer, so.
The next day was Saturday.
and I'm here with Andy.
I'm going to talk about the first
step of the code development process.
I'm a real person.
I really do like to have my free time.
I really do like to play games.
So I did some gaming,
but then I decided at noon, oh, no,
I really need to jump into it.
And one of the things I wanted to
tackle was how do I get this thing to
talk into open directory because this
is kind of what I need to develop.
I'm sure that there's code
that's already done for me here.
So I found this thing called Ruby Gems.
This is a box of gems that does--it's
kind of a package manager for Ruby.
So it's like CPAN for Perl
or like eggs for Python.
Ruby has gems.
and I found a module
called Ruby Net LDAP.
And what that let me do is it let me,
first off,
take a lot of their example code to get
my program to talk to Open Directory.
But it was not--it was not all
that hard to get my script up and
going based off the example code.
I just tweaked the server
name and I tweaked,
you know, a couple of the things here and
there to get what I wanted out of it.
And by 10:00 that night,
I had something that was working.
I was talking to Open Directory.
I was getting information out.
It was working fine.
I was parsing it in the way
that I wanted it to be parsed.
And everything is kosher.
And I think the reason why I was able to
get to that point was because I stopped,
I listed everything out,
I was methodical and I broke the
problem down into smaller chunks.
So when you're learning a new language,
do the same thing that
you do in the other
So the next day involves Rails.
So I wanted to get a jump start on it.
Unfortunately, I had slept because I was
exhausted from all this coding.
And I woke up a little bit later.
And I had my script
that was spitting out,
you know, stuff like this.
It was giving me the IP address
out of open directory.
It was giving me the host
name out of open directory.
I had a little ping function that
would see if it was up or down.
And I wanted to convert this
into something that was a little
bit more snazzy and put a nice
little web interface on it.
I wanted it to be like this program.
So somebody at work had been
evangelizing Ruby on Rails to me.
And they said, "Oh, yeah,
Rails is the way to get all your code
and put it up on the web and takes five
lines of code." Same Ruby evangelist guy.
And so I started to do some searching.
And I came upon the site,
which is the rubyonrails.org website.
One of the things that was really
useful here was the screencast.
And people talk much faster than
I do through these screencasts.
But it shows how you can build a
completely full--a fully functional
application that talks to Flickr
and does all sorts of crazy stuff.
It's really inspirational.
And one thing that's nice is OS X has
all the stuff built into the system.
So I didn't have to go download
and install Rails or anything.
It's all built into
Leopard out of the box.
So for me to get a basic website up,
I just had to type in these three things.
And you get your basic start page.
It's not all that exciting.
So I figured out, oh,
I'm just going to follow
the next two steps,
or two lines of code,
to get this thing to generate
a template for me to use.
These are kind of what you would use.
And what's nice is on OS X Leopard,
all this stuff automatically creates
the SQLite database for you to use,
and it does all this other
stuff for you magically.
and you get a really basic website.
So this doesn't look anything
like the other page that I wanted.
I wanted to figure out how I can
get my code into this and to have
it all formatted all nice and
pretty and to make it presentable.
And I ended up bashing my head into
the wall trying to make this work.
And I think the biggest reason
why is because I was trying
to write stuff procedurally,
and it doesn't work that way with Rails.
So I found that out by going
into Freenode on IRC and
wanted to pound Ruby on Rails.
The people there are really useful.
There's a topic on the channel
that pointed me to this really
useful Ruby on Rails documentation
website called noobkit.com.
Very appropriate for me.
And it was all interactive,
showed a lot of examples,
but I still didn't really
get it and I went to sleep.
I just kind of gave up.
But on the next day, I went into
I figured, hey, I'm going to talk to my
Ruby evangelist friend because he
said it would be five lines of code.
I did my five lines on the
terminal and it's not doing it.
So I talked to him a little bit about
what problems I was running up against.
And he went on a spiel
about the Rails way.
So the Rails way, what is that?
Well, in all the sessions at WWDC,
we've been talking about model, view,
controller.
The Rails way means using a model,
a view,
and a controller for your program.
I was trying to write
everything procedural.
I was trying to generate all my stuff.
I had my view mixed in with my
logic and all this other stuff.
And it wasn't working.
And after talking to him about that,
he kind of said, oh, yeah, no,
it's very much like Objective-C.
So I know that you played
around with it a little bit.
Just kind of do it that way.
So I did.
And I was thinking, oh, wow, OK,
that makes a lot more sense.
I don't know why it wasn't
obvious to me before,
probably because of the amount
of caffeine I've been having.
But I went home and decided, hey,
I'm going to jump right in,
I'm going to jump into the terminal,
get hacking away.
And I realized that the
solution to my problem was
kind of staring me in the face.
I already had the SQLite
database that is housing all
of my supplemental information,
like I was doing with my PHP thing.
And I realized that there's an
additional piece of functionality
that's built into Ruby on Rails,
which is Rake.
And I could just leverage those two
technologies to get what I wanted.
And the last day came.
And I want to show you what
I was able to put together.
So if we can go to--hey, please.
So let's pull up my website here.
I was able to get it going.
This is all in Ruby on Rails.
So some nice things here is this
lets you see information from open
directory that you might find.
So like your host name, your IP address.
I did the DNS resolution by
generating that information.
Mac address I was able
to get out of there.
The owner information
was stuff that I put in.
The location was stuff I put in.
Serial number I put in.
When the record was created,
it was done in Open Directory.
So I was able to merge these
sets of information together.
My Rake script that I'm running runs
every minute and it tells me whether
or not a server is up and down.
This is all--this didn't take
less--more than a week to put together.
You can click on this stuff,
you can go through and edit stuff.
So I can say Pacific Heights, X-Motion,
X-Motion, update.
And it goes through and it
updates it all on the back end
and this is all nice and dandy.
Obviously this is fake information
or else I'd do a little bit
more of a detailed demo,
but... I want to jump into the code
that I used to put this together.
I hope this is big enough
for everybody way back there.
This is showing the
view for the web page.
So you'll notice it's just
a--it looks like normal HTML.
and down here there's more normal HTML.
You'll see that I have some
extra stuff embedded in here.
This shows off the templating style that
Ruby gives you--or Ruby on Rails gives
you rather--which lets you go through
and inject Ruby code into your HTML.
So this is my view.
This is what makes up
the lovely page here.
The model part--I'm sorry,
the controller part is over here.
This is saying whenever
you go to the index page,
I'm going to find all the stuff
that's inside of your database and I'm
going to go through and print it out.
So the controller is pretty basic.
and the model is all default,
so there's no point in showing that.
But one thing I do want to show you
is where most of the stuff--where
the magic is actually happening.
It's inside of this lib task section.
And this lib task section is where you
can put these things called rake files,
which are very much like make files,
but this is the component that
goes through--and I have this
run nightly out of a cron.
I just say rake update db and
it goes through and updates the
database with new hosts out of it.
And inside of here,
you'll see that there's the server name,
LDAP port, all this other kind of stuff.
All it does is it does a search for
everything inside of a certain container,
grabs it all and puts it
inside of the database.
I'm not going to dive too much into
this because this is pretty much
all sample code that you can get out
of the Ruby net LDAP documentation.
And then for updating the status,
if stuff is online or offline,
I have this check host
script that runs on a,
you know, Mac OS X system.
And then I have this check
host script that runs on a,
you know, minute basis.
And all it does is it goes through and
it gets all the records out of it where
there's an IP address and it pings them.
So I was able to put all this
stuff together pretty quickly.
Let's go ahead and go
back to slides real quick.
I was able to put all this stuff
together in less than a week
with a lot of procrastination,
you know, playing video games and stuff.
And I think it's a
really good story of how,
you know, even if you're busy,
you're overloaded,
you have all this other stuff to do,
you can still do it.
It's just a matter of
being methodical about it.
These are the resources that
I used to make myself successful.
The rubylang.org website was
great for getting started.
The interactive tutorial that
they had on there was great.
That's what made me
say yes to begin with.
The noobkit.com website was wonderful
for the Ruby on Rails documentation.
And the rubyonrails.org website
was great for evangelizing,
you know, all the different things
that you can do with Rails.
And RubyForge was where I found
out about the net LDAP website.
So these are really
good resources to use.
The people on IRC were so friendly.
It's kind of a grab bag sometimes.
But the people on these
channels were great.
They were really friendly,
super accommodating.
And the last thing on here, rdoc and ri,
that's the online documentation
that comes with Ruby.
So it's all built into the systems.
And with that,
I'd like to go ahead and hand it
off to Chris who's going to talk
talk about kicking the kicker.
So I wanted to talk about
the Bridge support that is a
very handy feature in 10.5,
but since the goal here is to
actually solve problems that we
face as System Administrators,
we're going to do that in the context
of building a replacement for the Kicker
feature which disappeared in 10.5.
So the much lamented Kicker.
So the real underlying goal here
though is actually explaining
how this is a very nice way for
us to interact with the system.
Now, our systems that we deal with these
days are very complicated and we
need to actually do things with that.
We have to restart things or edit
policy when the network changes.
Perhaps we have something where
our users may be mounting volumes.
They plug in a FireWire drive and
we need to help them pull the video
that they've been working on off for
an archival project because they're
making 20,000 videos and we don't want
this to take a week doing it by hand.
There's also a fair amount of time
where we need to detect conditions.
So we can do something like
restart a service which has
problems with network transitions
or some other policy decision.
And the problem that we run into is that
the traditional approach for this is to
create something like a shell script.
Maybe we come up with something where
we watch on a log file or run something
out of cron every minute or in the worst
case give our user something and say,
when it breaks, run this and it should
hopefully be unbroken.
The problem there is that this
doesn't really work that well.
You set up your tail and you watch
grep for things out of syslog.
And then a point release comes
out and you find out that somebody
at Apple helpfully added more
information into the log message,
which is great because now your logs
convey useful information that you
wanted to have except that you've got
to go update your regular expression
and push that out to all the machines.
And that gets old.
What we're trying to do here
is get out of this business of
being a maintenance programmer,
where we have to watch because
we're consuming things that weren't
really intended for our usage there.
We're dealing with things like syslog
that wasn't a reliable interface.
We have things like
running jobs out of cron,
where we have to deal with the
fact that our job has to run
every minute and it has no state.
And it means that our scripts
tend to be somewhat useless there.
We have these 30 or 40
lines of code there,
and exactly four of those actually
solve the problem that we wanted.
In this case, restarting auto-mount
whenever it started hanging,
which was a problem in our
environment prior to 10.5.
And that's a lot of
code for us to maintain.
In this case,
if you look all the way up at the top,
you can see it uses the file tail module,
which is not stable.
We had to install that on some
of the machines that needed it.
This approach doesn't scale for the
kind of complicated systems that
we tend to be building these days.
And a lot of the needs that have
been coming up are the kind where
the conventional approach is becoming
less and less suitable for that.
Shell languages are not
particularly advanced.
And now we need to do
complicated string processing.
We need to deal with other things
like LDAP servers or databases.
We might have to parse
an XML file or a P list.
And then we run into the other major
problem for a system administrator
is that a lot of the software we
use wasn't designed with us in mind.
So we have to do something like
script GUI events or reverse
engineer a configuration file.
I think the answer is for us to go
ahead and rethink exactly how we're
going about running our systems there.
So if we started to ask that question,
what would we really want?
Well, the answer is clear.
We want to become first
class users of our systems.
When we have problems
that we need to solve,
we want to solve it the same way
that the engineers at Apple or
the software development company
might solve it using defined APIs,
things which were designed for
that task so that they don't break.
So that we don't run into the little
list of caveats to go with things.
In short, we want it to become more like
software engineering where we
actually are having time to think
about things like performance,
robustness, usability there,
which is really getting past the idea
that every problem should be solved with
a couple of lines of shell scripting,
which I think is a good thing.
In this case here,
this is an example of the
Scripting Bridge framework code.
And it's actually quite interesting.
It's a little bit more
complicated than the other code.
But what we're trying to do here
is we're trying to get people
to understand the process of how
we're going to run our systems.
And that's really what
we're trying to do here.
And we're trying to get people
to understand the process of how
we're going to run our systems.
using the native API.
This is the big change that 10.5 gave us,
is now on every Mac we have a
standard interface for accessing
the Cocoa APIs from a language
such as Python or Ruby there.
The frameworks will actually
handle translating native Python or
Ruby variables into whatever
the Objective-C API is expecting.
And I realize that this is a
somewhat controversial issue,
but I find that the resulting
Python code is frequently cleaner
than the Objective-C code just
because the dynamic languages
tend to have a very rich syntax,
and we can take advantage of that
without having to get into the
conventional software distribution
process and worrying about shipping out
32 and 64-bit binaries and so forth.
So the major advantage here is the
access that we get to things like
the system configuration framework.
We can load things like QuickTime.
We can load things like the command
line argument parsing so your users
get something a little less hostile.
It's pretty easy.
Rich logging there,
which is a system administrators,
we demand all of our vendors produce
good logging so we have an idea
what their processes are doing.
Well, we can do the same thing as well.
So this is an example of the fairly
minor differences between Objective-C and
Python for most of what I'm showing here.
You can see it's largely syntax.
And in the examples that
I worked with there,
most of the time I was able to
take an Objective-C example out of
Apple's device and then I was able
to take an Objective-C example
out of a developer site,
copy it into a text editor,
change a few brackets, add an underscore,
and run it,
and it worked out of the box there.
It's a pretty easy process there.
And there is some good
documentation available.
The last part I think
here is the key one,
namely that if you have a
Mac with the developer tools,
you already have most
of this code on there,
everything from simple command
line scripts up to things involving
WebKit or complicated GUIs.
So it's very much worth looking at.
I did run into a couple of issues
which I wanted to point out.
The main one just being the
understanding that you are,
in fact, now becoming a Cocoa programmer
if you go down this route.
So you have to understand that
you're not pure Python anymore.
In this case,
it was an issue with RunWhoops.
It was fairly easy to solve,
but I found that this was well
worth the time investment.
And then the other point here is
you can build GUI applications.
There's actually a deprecated
example in the developer tools,
but it's better just to start
with the Xcode template there.
Now, actually, earlier in the week,
I was at the Cocoa Heads talk,
and they mentioned that there's
actually an application there which
you can go find on the shelf at
most Apple stores called Checkout,
which is written entirely in
Python using the Objective-C bridge.
The developer actually was saying
that there wasn't a single line of
Objective-C code in that application.
So this is something that
can be used in production.
Also, take a second for a little
bit of Python advocacy here.
The situation is similar with Ruby,
but basically if you're
a system administrator,
you want to know about at least
the modules listed here and then
look through the rich standard
library out there because again,
many of the problems that we need
to deal with and the sorts of things
that can take a great deal of time
in a shell script are already done.
So, at that point, let's go back to the
kicker discussion here.
Kickr existed because the people at
Apple working on OS X had the same needs
that we do for dealing with changes.
So they needed to be able to run
code when the network changed,
when the power state changed,
the active user changed.
And the problem was that this was
done in the system configuration
framework with an XML file.
Now,
if you're already thinking about this,
you're going, "Wait,
doesn't that live under
/system?" And that's the problem.
Kickr wasn't a supported feature.
It was the easiest way to have
something run when an event fired off.
But unfortunately,
it disappeared completely in 10.5 when
they changed some of the structure.
We were no longer able to
piggyback on that code.
There are also a few other
things that we can look at.
Kickr was handy for what it was,
but frequently we also run into
cases where we might want to
handle other sorts of events.
FSEvents allows us to just monitor
arbitrary file system activity
in a very low overhead fashion.
This is the same thing that
tools like Spotlight use.
And it's really handy if you do have
some sort of complicated workflow
where you need to be able to react
to users creating files there.
You get an efficient notification,
and you can process it
directly in your Python code,
the same as any other event.
Workspace notifications are also handy.
Those apply any time things like a disk
image or a network volume is mounted,
the active user changes,
an application launches.
And there's one other improvement
that we can make here,
which is that we can make this something
that doesn't require running as root.
This actually means that we can open
this up to being a user accessible
tool where some of our users,
many of mine are scientists who have
these complicated workflow requirements,
which they're never really
going to get quite set in stone
because their experiments change.
And so I don't want to give
them root on the system,
but I also don't want to have
to be restarting things and
vetting their code all the time.
Now they can just run
it under their account,
and I can just help them
out if they get stuck.
I also took the opportunity to take
advantage of the logging features and
add a few things like being able to
list the sort of events that you can
monitor on a system so that you can do a
little bit of discovery if you're trying
to see what sort of tool you can solve.
This example is a very simple one here.
It uses the network change event just
to tell Squid to reconfigure itself.
There's--Squid's kind of handy
if you're doing web development,
but unfortunately it doesn't
handle network migration
particularly gracefully.
And as you can see here,
there's basically one line saying which
key we want and we run a single command.
And in the example below,
you can see that when the
network state changes,
that fires off and I didn't have
to do anything more than that
from the perspective of solving
Now, we're about to switch to the
second and more interesting demo.
But this one,
to provide a little background there,
OpenSSH has a dynamic proxy mode.
When you run that,
it will pretend to be a SOC server
and tunnel any request over to the
remote end of its connection there.
So, since we have launchd available,
I can have that set up to
maintain that SSH connection.
It will restart it if
it happens to time out.
And then, with the public key
agent support in 10.5,
I can be sure that my SSH agent is going
to be up if I have a network connection.
So,
the only thing left here is going into
my system preferences and checking
the little box that says use SOCs.
And then, poof,
I'm on a conference wireless network.
It's secure.
I'm off at a place that has
some sort of weird ad injection.
No problem.
Except that I don't want to use it at
work because there we have a gigabit
network and I don't want the overhead.
And so, the solution here was basically
to have a little bit of code which
can go in and selectively enable
or disable the use of the proxy
based on whether or not I'm remote.
And can we switch to the demo computer?
So, as you can see,
currently we have the SOX proxy disabled.
There's absolutely nothing set.
Now, unfortunately,
the network people here don't
want us reconfiguring things,
so this is actually a rigged demo,
but it's rigged in a way that
illustrates how powerful this idea is,
because instead of having this triggered
by firing off a network change event,
I'm going to trigger it
by mounting a disk image.
And as soon as that runs,
You can see that this is updated.
Down here we can see the log messages.
And if we run the SCUtil,
we can see that that's
already updated there.
Now the configuration for
this is pretty simple.
You can see up here I'm looking
for an NSWorkspace event.
And it's the did mount
notification and it just points
to a Python class that I wrote.
Down here you can see the part
which would fire the same event
and call the same code if the
network configuration changed.
There's the entire class,
the key part being right here,
where it looks to see--
Am I on the corporate network?
And if so, go ahead and enable the proxy.
So we can switch back to slides.
[Transcript missing]
is an Enterprise Consulting
Engineer at Apple.
Thanks Chris.
Hey everybody, how are you doing today?
We're going to take a look here
at something called Home Injector.
And unlike the last two speakers
who got up there and talked
about the death of Shell,
I did this in Bash because it was quick,
dirty and easy.
So the goal we had in mind here
was we wanted to allow users to
use portable home directories.
For those of you that don't know,
just really fast here,
portable home directories are very cool.
We can use this to take a user that
has both a local home and a network
home and we synchronize the two.
They're synchronized so if they
make a change to the local home,
it's synchronized up to the network.
If they make a change to the network,
it goes the other way.
The newest file wins and then you have
everything in one place all the time.
That way when you leave the office,
you have the stuff on your laptop
and when you come back to use
your big eight core machine,
you have everything there as well.
It solves issues with applications
that hate network homes.
Everybody that has tried to run network
homes in an organization has found
at least one or two things that just
cannot tolerate network homes and
this gets rid of that issue as well
because you then just have a local home.
It works with open directory
obviously as an Apple technology.
But honestly more important for
most of my customers these days,
it works with active directory
because active directory is very,
very prevalent in the
enterprise workspace.
So we need to be able to share we
work with active directory as well.
The syncing is all client side
kind of function so the client
just needs to know where to go
to get the data and put the data.
The key to portable home directories
is they need a couple things.
They have to have a mobile
or an external account.
These are exactly the same in Leopard.
You can take a laptop with a
mobile account on it and put it
in target disk mode and instantly
it's an external account.
The only difference between a mobile
account and an external account is that
the external account isn't in /users.
Need to have a network home location,
obviously,
otherwise there's nothing to sync to.
This is going to be embedded in the
user's account in the directory services.
And you need to have
a local home location.
Again, obviously,
if you don't have a local home,
you have nothing to sync.
[Transcript missing]
So the solution to this, obviously,
is a script.
Otherwise I'm in the wrong room.
So we need to replicate the
logic of a logon script.
So we're going to need to take this and
we need to figure out how to turn that
VB script or .bat file or whatever the
heck it is that they're running into
something that a Mac can understand.
We need to check for group membership.
Apple has some very nice tools
built specifically to do this.
We also need to set the home accordingly.
So there's a couple of issues with this.
The first one is where
do you get the script?
A lot of times the guy who maintains
these scripts is maintaining this
giant script because he doesn't
want to have to do something else or
realize that if they just filled in
the profile he is no longer needed.
But a lot of times they're
also kind of shut-ins.
They're often a cube somewhere
in a basement room and they like
someone to come talk to them.
So just go ask.
If you just go ask a lot of times,
they'll just give you the script
and then you can take a look at
it and start converting that over
to whatever language you want.
The other one is how do you set up
a portable home account to work?
To set up the portable
home account to work,
we need attributes.
What attributes?
How do we construct these?
Where do we put them?
Things like that.
Another way to get that script,
which I actually forgot to mention,
is that remember I said that
Windows machines typically just
mount a share and go get the script.
Look at a Windows machine
that's logging in,
see what share it mounts,
just go to your Mac then and
connect to server SMB colon,
whack, whack.
Just go download the script
straight to your machine as well.
I've done that a couple times as well.
So the attributes that we need
we came up with are going to
be built by HomeInjector.bash.
And HomeInjector.bash
does a couple things.
And this is going to look really
similar to the logon script.
It runs it log in instead of it log on.
It checks for group memberships.
It's going to inject the needed
attributes and construct those attributes
into the user's cached account.
And it turns out you only need two
attributes to make all this work.
You need SMB home and you
need original home location.
If you have these two attributes,
you can add them to any mobile account,
whether that account has a network
home defined for it in it or not,
and all of a sudden portable
home syncing magically works.
So the actual script--and we're going
to go through this step by step here,
and then we'll do a quick
demo with it actually working.
So first we need to establish
some variables we use.
And this is the part where
if you consider yourself
A Bash expert.
You should look away from the screen.
I showed this to a friend of mine
from Google earlier today and his
head literally nearly separated
from his shoulders as he just
stared gape mouth at this code.
Mainly the group array there
where I win the award for the
most creative use of the strings
command to generate a Bash array.
We just have a couple
things we need to do.
We need to go ahead and figure
out what we're going to have.
For this example, I use kids and parents
because that's always easy.
You put in what the UNC path will
be and what the SMB path will be.
The UNC path is usually what
it will find in the AD profile.
The URL is what the AD plugin
would generally generate
then in order to use this.
So there we've got Gannon for the kids.
It's our SMB server.
Our link server was a
Mac OS X server in this case.
SMB on both platforms.
We're just going to
go ahead and use that.
The next thing we need to do
is check for group membership.
So when you're doing a login hook,
login hook has a couple of
special variables you can call.
$1 in this case is the username of
the-- the name of the user logging in.
So this way we can just say I'm
checking for groups for this person.
And we go back to my cunningly
crafted array and we go back and
we use DSEditGroup to go ahead and
check for the members in there.
This is just a built-in
function of DSEditGroup.
It's been around since Tiger and
it's very easy--allows you
just to return a good answer.
Is this person in this group?
If we do find it,
then we go ahead and just say yes.
So that's the group they're found in.
Obviously if you're doing this on
a much larger scale where someone
could be in multiple groups,
you'd have to write that logic into this.
But like I said,
this is a proof of concept
script so just so you can get the
idea of what we're doing here.
We're then going to build
out these attributes,
which is extremely easy.
It's just substituting in
some-- the variables we set up.
So if they're in kids,
then set the kids URL path and the kids
SMB path into these attributes here.
When I do scripting,
if I'm going to have an
attribute or something like
that that I need to inject,
I just name the variable
whatever the actual name of
what I'm going to be using is.
In this case,
the attribute SMBHome will be
created from the variable SMBHome.
It makes it very simple when
you're writing your script to
keep up with what you're doing.
And then I'm going to inject these into
the local directory services and exit.
So I just use "discal," I just use
"discal local," and in that user,
I create these two attributes.
You can see again I'm using the $1 there,
so I don't have to think about anything.
So login hooks will take care of that.
And then we just exit
out of that cleanly.
So I'm going to switch over
to the demo machine now.
And we'll take a look at this.
Okay.
So I have here a Windows 2008
domain controller.
And if I were to log in on it,
I'll show you I have a user.
This machine is bound
to Active Directory,
but I don't currently
have any users set up.
Oh, I do have that one.
I'm going to remove him real fast.
and David Leith at home.
Okay, now we're ready.
So if I look in here and I open up ADUC,
We can take a look at
Owen's account here.
And you'll notice that Owen does
not have a network home set.
So, profile, nothing set.
In Active Directory,
you can have the local
home or the network home.
And in this case,
there's just nothing to find at all,
so we won't have to have
it worry about anything.
We can look at what he's a member of.
He is a member of a group
called Windows Homes.
And there he is in there.
And that way we know that when we--
that's the group we're going to key off
his home folders on a Windows server.
So if I cancel out of that and
then I log out of this workstation,
getting control of my mouse back,
we can log in as Owen.
So I'm going to log out, leave my domain
controller up and running.
I'll log in as Owen.
And I've set the AD plugin--and I'll
show you these settings in a second--
I've set the AD plugin to just go
ahead and make a mobile account
and to not bother the user with it.
Because inevitably someone checks
the wrong box there and then you
have to go get the box back for them.
So you can see his home
is just a local home here.
And if he was to go into the
system preferences and look
at the account preferences,
You'll notice that he has
the mobile account here,
but it's grayed out.
I can't click on it,
so I can't set up mobile home
syncing or anything like that.
[Transcript missing]
Now that I've authenticated,
I can click on Preferences.
And I want to set this
preference at a machine level.
So I'm going to pick my machine here.
And here's my bug.
That's a known issue
and it is being fixed.
It's completely cosmetic issue.
It does not affect anything
from actually functioning.
So if I come in here to
scripts and I click on always,
here you see I can have login scripts
and logout scripts done with policy.
Rather than push out the login
script to every machine with
ARD or something like that,
I can just put it in the directory,
which is kind of the whole point
of using a directory service,
and all the workstations then
get their script from here.
That way if I find a typo,
if I need to make an edit to
it or something like that,
I don't have to worry about it.
I just change it in WorkRoute
Manager and all the workstations
get it automatically.
So I do want to manage the login script,
so I put this in a convenient
location here to load it in.
Click Open.
That loads that into the directory
after I clear some dialogs.
And now it's ready to go.
If I were to look at this,
it actually stores that.
It encodes it.
So it's a little bit scary to look at.
[Transcript missing]
and David So already there was some
machine specific MCX attached to this.
Now, to get that to work,
obviously a login hook--I have to login,
right?
So I'm going to log out.
and log back in as Owen.
And when I do that,
all of a sudden my home syncing
should be functioning properly.
So I'm going to log back in as Owen.
To the user,
there's no actual change in the
behavior that they're seeing.
So we get all logged back in.
And now I'm going to open
up System Preferences.
And magically the button now works.
So if I click on Settings here,
I can actually go in and set this up.
I'm going to say Automatically
Sync My Home Folder.
And I'll give you my status up
there so I can see what I'm doing.
and I'm going to sync the home now.
This is following the local sync
settings that are default on the client.
You could push down more
sync settings though using
Workgroup Manager and Policy.
So it's going to take a
second here to do this.
It is mounting a home to itself
in a Windows VM running on a mini.
So this will take a second.
So now the home has synchronized
and if I were to make a folder here,
Demo is working.
Then we log out of OWEN.
It'll synchronize again here.
And then we'll log back in and
we'll actually just look at the
file system in Windows and we
should see that it's complete.
It did work earlier
in the lab downstairs,
so I'm assuming it's going to work again.
And you can actually do this to inject
that in so that that sort of thing works.
This is because I had
synchronized before.
The network is newer in this case.
There we go.
Because the network is newer,
because I just created
this mobile account.
So as soon as this is done syncing,
we'll log back in and we'll take a
look and you'll see that it actually
did work and I never had to change
the AD profile for the user at all.
All right.
So synchronizing is now complete and
we can take a look at that file system.
So if I go back to my VM now,
take a look in the console,
take a look at the computer.
Oh, not that drive.
What could they sort
them alphabetically now?
Holmes, Owen, Desktop.
and David So you can see it actually did
synchronize the changes back up there.
And if we go back and look
at Owen's account still,
again just to verify that
there is no home path set.
So we can go back to the slides now.
So a couple things to
keep in mind about this.
I can see some gears around the room
grinding in minds right now because I'm
sure there's someone in this room that is
stuck with these antiquated Windows logon
policies to determine network homes.
So the real solution is
not to script this at all.
The real solution is to
use the AD profile like
Microsoft tells everyone to do.
So static logon scripts can be hard
to maintain if you have a large
amount of logic that are in them
because if you change the name of a
group somewhere and things like that.
This can be made easier if you deploy
your log in hooks with policy though.
That way you don't have to
actually go touch every computer.
You just update it in
your directory services.
You can go download this script now.
It's on afp548.com.
And that way you can take
a look at it yourself.
It's very simple.
I wrote it in Bash and it's
just--it's very simple to
understand and easy to look at.
So go ahead and go grab it and
take a look and you can possibly
use that or just even use it as
kind of a template for working
with log in scripts on your own.
So hand things back to Joel now.
Thank you very much.